cloud Pub/Sub

Cloud Pub/Sub brings the flexibility and reliability of enterprise message-oriented middleware to the cloud. At the same time, Cloud Pub/Sub is a scalable, durable event ingestion and delivery system that serves as a foundation for modern stream analytics pipelines.

topic

A named resource to which messages are sent by publishers.

subscription

A named resource representing the stream of messages from a single, specific topic, to be delivered to the subscribing application.

message

The combination of data and (optional) attributes that a publisher sends to a topic and is eventually delivered to subscribers.

message attribute

A key-value pair that a publisher can define for a message. For example, key iana.org/language_tag and value en could be added to messages to mark them as readable by an English-speaking subscriber.

publisher-subscriber relationships

A publisher application creates and sends messages to a topic. Subscriber applications create a subscription to a topic to receive messages from it. Communication can be one-to-many (fan-out), many-to-one (fan-in), and many-to-many.

message flow

1.A publisher application creates a topic in the Cloud Pub/Sub service and sends messages to the topic. A message contains a payload and optional attributes that describe the payload content.
2.The service ensures that published messages are retained on behalf of subscriptions. A published message is retained for a subscription until it is acknowledged by any subscriber consuming messages from that subscription.
3.Cloud Pub/Sub forwards messages from a topic to all of its subscriptions, individually. Each subscription receives messages either by Cloud Pub/Sub pushing them to the subscriber's chosen endpoint, or by the subscriber pulling them from the service.
4.The subscriber receives pending messages from its subscription and acknowledges each one to the Cloud Pub/Sub service.
5.When a message is acknowledged by the subscriber, it is removed from the subscription's message queue.


publisher and subscriber endpoints

Publishers can be any application that can make HTTPS requests to googleapis.com: an App Engine app, a web service hosted on Google Compute Engine or any other third-party network, an installed app for desktop or mobile device, or even a browser.Pull subscribers can also be any application that can make HTTPS requests to googleapis.com. Push subscribers must be Webhook endpoints that can accept POST requests over HTTPS.

